RP2350
======

Introduction
------------

RP2350 features a dual-core Arm Cortex-M33 processor with 520 kiB on-chip SRAM,
support for up to 16 MB of off-chip flash and a wide range of flexible I/O option
including I2C, SPI, and - uniquely - Programmable I/O (PIO). With its security
features RP2350 offers significant enhancements over RP2040.

This platform port supports TF-M regression tests (Secure and Non-Secure)
with Isolation Level 1 and 2.

.. note::

   Only the GNU toolchain is supported.

.. note::

   Only the "profile_medium" predefined profile is supported.

Building TF-M
-------------

Follow the generic build instructions in :doc:`Building instructions </building/tfm_build_instruction>`
and specify the platform name by setting ``-DTFM_PLATFORM=rpi/rp2350``.

.. note::

   This platform port relies on the
   `Raspberry Pi Pico SDK <https://github.com/raspberrypi/pico-sdk>`__.
   Make sure it is either cloned locally or available to download during build.
   SDK version used for testing: ``SDK 2.1.1 release``.

.. note::

   Building the default platform configuration requires the board to be
   provisioned first. For this the provision bundle needs to be built and run on
   the board with ``-DPLATFORM_DEFAULT_PROVISIONING=OFF``. The binary must be
   placed in flash at the start address defined by ``PROVISIONING_BUNDLE_START``.
   One way to do this is to generate a `.uf2` file containing the bundle at the
   start address and copy it to the board. There is an example in the provided
   `pico_uf2.sh` script and in the description below.

   If ``-DPLATFORM_DEFAULT_PROVISIONING=OFF`` and
   ``-DTFM_DUMMY_PROVISIONING=ON`` then the keys in the
   ``<TF-M source dir>/platform/ext/common/provisioning_bundle/provisioning_config.cmake``
   and the default MCUboot signing keys will be used for provisioning.

   If ``-DPLATFORM_DEFAULT_PROVISIONING=OFF`` and
   ``-DTFM_DUMMY_PROVISIONING=OFF`` are set then unique assets can be used for
   provisioning. The keys and seeds can be changed by passing the new values to
   the build command, or by setting the ``-DPROVISIONING_KEYS_CONFIG`` config option
   to point to a `.cmake` config file that contains the keys. An example config file
   is available at
   ``<TF-M source dir>/platform/ext/common/provisioning_bundle/provisioning_config.cmake``,
   otherwise new random values are going to be generated and used. For the
   image signing the ``${MCUBOOT_KEY_S}`` and ``${MCUBOOT_KEY_NS}`` will be used.
   These variables should point to `.pem` files that contain the private keys for
   signing the code. The respective public keys (or hashes of them) are going to
   be written in the provisioning data, i.e. in the autogenerated
   ``provisioning_data.c``.

   If ``-DMCUBOOT_GENERATE_SIGNING_KEYPAIR=ON`` is set then a new private key is
   going to be generated and used to sign the binaries.

   The new generated key can be found in the ``<build dir>/bin`` directory or
   in the ``<install dir>/image_signing/keys`` after installation. The
   generated ``provisioning_data.c`` file can be found at
   ``<build dir>/platform/target/provisioning/provisioning_data.c``

.. note::

   The provisioning bundle generation depends on ``pyelftools`` that has to be
   installed before running the commands described above::

     pip3 install pyelftools

Example of build instructions for regression tests with dummy keys:
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Building Secure side with provisioning bundle:

.. note::

   Add optionally:

   - ``-DTFM_MULTI_CORE_TOPOLOGY=ON`` for multicore support
   - ``-DPICO_SDK_PATH=<abs-path-to-pico-sdk-dir>`` for a pre-fetched Pico SDK

.. code-block:: bash

     cmake -S <TF-M-tests source dir>/tests_reg/spe \
     -B <TF-M-tests source dir>/tests_reg/spe/build_rpi_single \
     -DTFM_PLATFORM=rpi/rp2350 \
     -DTFM_TOOLCHAIN_FILE=<TF-M source dir>/toolchain_GNUARM.cmake \
     -DCONFIG_TFM_SOURCE_PATH=<TF-M source dir> \
     -DTFM_PROFILE=profile_medium \
     -DPLATFORM_DEFAULT_PROVISIONING=OFF \
     -DTEST_S=ON \
     -DTEST_NS=ON

.. code-block:: bash

     cmake --build <TF-M-tests source dir>/tests_reg/spe/build_rpi_single -- -j8 install


Building Non-Secure side:

.. code-block:: bash

     cmake -S <TF-M-tests source dir>/tests_reg \
     -B <TF-M-tests source dir>/tests_reg/build_rpi_single \
     -DCONFIG_SPE_PATH=<TF-M-tests source dir>/tests_reg/spe/build_rpi_single/api_ns \
     -DTFM_TOOLCHAIN_FILE=<TF-M-tests source dir>/tests_reg/spe/build_rpi_single/api_ns/cmake/toolchain_ns_GNUARM.cmake

.. code-block:: bash

     cmake --build <TF-M-tests source dir>/tests_reg/build_rpi_single -- -j8

Binaries need to be converted with a small script ``pico_uf2.sh``.
It uses
`uf2conv.py <https://github.com/microsoft/uf2/blob/master/utils/uf2conv.py>`__
and it depends on
`uf2families.json <https://github.com/microsoft/uf2/blob/master/utils/uf2families.json>`__:
both those files need to be copied into the same place where ``pico_uf2.sh``
runs. Also, you may need to give executable permissions to both ``pico_uf2.sh`` and
``uf2conv.py``. The tool takes the combined and signed S and NS images in `.bin` format,
and outputs `.uf2`. It also generates the `.uf2` for the bootloader (`bl2.uf2`)
and the provisioning bundle.

.. code-block:: bash

     pico_uf2.sh <TF-M-tests source dir> build_rpi_single

Then just copy the `bl2.uf2` and `tfm_s_ns_signed.uf2` files to the board, one
at a time. It will run the BL2, S and NS tests and print the results to the UART
(Baud rate must be set to 115200).
If the board needs to be provisioned, the `.uf2` file containing the provisioning
bundle needs to be copied before `tfm_s_ns_signed.uf2`. It only needs to be
done once.

.. note::

   If a different application was copied to the board before, erasing the flash
   might be necessary.

Erasing the flash
-----------------

Generating flash sized image of zeros can be done with the truncate command,
then it can be converted to the ```uf2`` format with the ``uf2conv.py`` utility. The
resulting ``uf2`` file then needs to be copied to the board. Current platform flash
size is 2 MB, please adjust size based on your board specs, i.e. ``PICO_FLASH_SIZE_BYTES``:

.. code-block:: bash

   truncate -s 2M nullbytes2M.bin
   uf2conv.py nullbytes2M.bin --base 0x10000000 --convert --output nullbytes2M.uf2 --family 0xe48bff59

-------------

 *SPDX-License-Identifier: BSD-3-Clause*

 *SPDX-FileCopyrightText: Copyright The TrustedFirmware-M Contributors*
